Coleman: Me.
Dr. Figg: Yes, I can hear you there colon. This is Dr. Figure able to
Dr. Figg: Vice problems.
Coleman: Um, yeah, I'm trying to get my video to show. Can you see me. No.
Dr. Figg: I don't know that quite
Coleman: Okay, hang on.
Coleman: That's okay, I'm
Dr. Figg: Gonna there you go that's there we go. Alright, cool.
Dr. Figg: Alright, so I see you know where I'm recording we record all of our sessions so that we can transcribe our notes, they stay private. I'm just going to let you know ahead of time. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Okay. All right. My name is Dr fig. I'm one of the physicians with bright side.
Dr. Figg: And I do addiction medicine.
Dr. Figg: And is that why we're seeing you today.
Dr. Figg: Yes. Okay, wonderful. So let's start with you telling me what I can help you with today and kind of why we're having this conversation, what led to that.
Coleman: Oh, you can help me get off heroin.
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Coleman: I am
Coleman: I'm having a conversation because a guy I know one time had some of those two bucks on strips.
Coleman: As you put your tongue, and I was, I was going to withdraw and he gave me one.
Coleman: Cylinder
Coleman: The only had one to give me, but I mean, it kind of like to pain away and I was throwing up and I wasn't going through all the stuff that you go through
Coleman: That period, but it seemed like I don't know.
How
Coleman: To just to interrupt you for a second.
Coleman: Can you still hear me.
Dr. Figg: Yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna stop your video and leave the sound going because I think or
Coleman: Maybe
Dr. Figg: Be better
Able to hear you. Okay.
Coleman: Okay. All right, so
Dr. Figg: I stopped your video there but you should still be able to see me, hopefully.
Dr. Figg: Okay, so you were telling me, but let's keep going. You're telling me that you're going through
Dr. Figg: Withdrawal
Dr. Figg: And a friend.
Dr. Figg: Gave you a sock. So, and that
Dr. Figg: Took away.
Dr. Figg: The discomfort draws
Coleman: All. Yeah. And the next day. It seemed like I don't know, maybe it wore off or something. But the sick came back.
Coleman: Then I would eventually used again just for me. My thing is
Coleman: And I want to get away from it so bad. Listen.
Coleman: Draw stuff is so scary. Just to go through this so miserable.
Dr. Figg: OK.
Dr. Figg: So the withdrawal is scary withdrawal keeps you from being able to quit and effectively. Is that accurate. Yeah.
Coleman: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Figg: When did you start using heroin.
Coleman: Well, the very, very first time was way back in 1990 and anyone like that.
Coleman: Then I got off.
Coleman: Then I got off about
Coleman: 2000 234 actually four years.
Coleman: And then
Coleman: I return. Unfortunately, back to the environment that I should never return to and eventually
Coleman: Got it. I got
Coleman: Back into the bad habits. I see. And
Dr. Figg: And when did you start using one
To
Dr. Figg: 2005 okay
Coleman: Has that been fairly low
Coleman: 2002 2000 2009 2008 or nine
Dr. Figg: So has that been fairly continuous for the last 11 or 12 years then
Dr. Figg: Yeah. Okay. All right. Um, and over that period of time has the amount of heroin, you're using been fairly consistent or has it been increasing over time.
Coleman: Well, it, it increased but it kicked out.
Coleman: Meaning when I started
Coleman: Back maybe one bag a day or so we do and then the tolerance level, get to the point where that's not enough, and then they got two, maybe three, four bags a day.
Coleman: And then kind of peeked out right there. Okay.
Coleman: SO WE'LL BE RIGHT NOW, IS THERE.
Dr. Figg: Anything about four bags of that recently.
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Dr. Figg: Is that all at once, or is it space throughout the day.
Coleman: Throughout okay
Dr. Figg: Do you sometimes use more than that.
Coleman: Rarely, rarely because I'm not a group gotta do. I'm by myself. What
Coleman: I say so. Yeah.
Dr. Figg: But no parties are dangerous, things like that.
Dr. Figg: Now, okay, all right.
Coleman: What functioning. I'm a functioning addict, which is I think the worst because you can kind of deal with life a little bit but
Coleman: That's the bad part about it.
Coleman: So it wasn't functioning.
Dr. Figg: Okay. And have you ever having had an overdose.
Coleman: And never had an overdose.
Dr. Figg: heading over to us. Have you ever been hospitalized for anything related to the heroines
Coleman: I've never been asked.
Dr. Figg: How we're using the heroin.
Coleman: Smoking
Dr. Figg: Started. Okay. And have you ever had any infections or medical problems related to her.
Coleman: Know that I know. Okay.
Dr. Figg: All right. Um,
Dr. Figg: When is the last time that you used
Coleman: Mine.
Dr. Figg: This morning, okay, and
Dr. Figg: Just it just, I understand that. So you said about four grams a day and I'm sorry, I don't think I understood the answer to the question I asked. So did you use for bags all the ones for do you do space, it was
Coleman: Nice face it.
Coleman: Just basic okay
Dr. Figg: Yeah. So how much did you use this morning.
Coleman: Bag.
Dr. Figg: Okay. And if that's the last time you use when would you expect to start going into withdrawal.
Dr. Figg: When will you start feeling sick.
I'm
Coleman: Today, right now it's 12 O'clock my time.
Coleman: If I, if I hadn't done tomorrow morning.
Dr. Figg: Tomorrow morning searching on that.
Okay.
Coleman: Right.
Dr. Figg: When you go into Thrall, what's the first thing that starts feeling wrong, what's yeah I want to understand your pattern of increasing withdrawal symptoms. So what's the first thing that feels bad.
Coleman: Really
Coleman: Add
Coleman: Cheers. Cheers.
Dr. Figg: Okay, and kind of talk me through what what do you feel next and then what do you feel. Next thing as you go into withdrawal.
Coleman: Then the runny nose, diarrhea, okay.
All right.
Dr. Figg: And
Dr. Figg: Have you
Dr. Figg: Spent a lot of time and energy, making sure you don't go into withdrawal.
Coleman: I don't know what you mean by time and
Coleman: The thing that prevents is to use
Dr. Figg: Okay.
And so as
Dr. Figg: About how many hours a week do you think you spend
Dr. Figg: Using and acquiring the heroin.
Dr. Figg: How many hours in the day.
Coleman: Day.
Coleman: Using and acquiring yeah
Dr. Figg: You spend an hour.
Coleman: Yeah, maybe.
Coleman: Look at our two
Dr. Figg: Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Do you, I apologize. Give me one second. I'm sorry about that. I just need to
Dr. Figg: Tell someone to wait. OK.
OK.
Dr. Figg: For that. Are you still there.
Coleman: Yes.
Dr. Figg: Okay, wonderful. I apologize for that. We should be uninterrupted so
Dr. Figg: Let's talk about some of your other medical information. Do you have any allergies.
Coleman: Now, oh
Dr. Figg: No allergies. Okay. And do you take any other medications.
Coleman: No. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Do you have any other medical conditions.
Dr. Figg: No. Have you had any surgeries.
Coleman: No.
Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: When we think about family history, we generally talk about mom, dad, brother sisters. Does anybody else in the family has a history of problems with using drugs or other substances.
Coleman: Not really. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Is there any history of depression or anxiety in your family.
Yes. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Who has depression, mom, dad, brother sisters
Coleman: Oh me now you
Coleman: Only have
Coleman: Two brothers living in the
Coleman: 60 plus years of eight. So we're not really
Coleman: I sit tight.
Coleman: Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: Um, have you ever been to any day or any meetings.
Coleman: I did.
Coleman: First time when I stopped. I want to do it in a
Dr. Figg: Bag and that was in early 2000s. Correct.
Dr. Figg: Or. Gotcha. Okay, making sure I understand. Okay.
Dr. Figg: Have you considered going to na meetings. Now,
Coleman: Yes. Okay. All right, great.
Dr. Figg: Okay and so other than the one time that a friend gave us Suboxone. Have you taken it before or after that.
Coleman: Yes.
Coleman: Another time he gave me
Coleman: Two. Okay.
Coleman: And
Coleman: She I think it's going
Coleman: To use it wrong. Okay, I think.
Coleman: I was supposed to wait until
Coleman: I was feeling, yo.
Dr. Figg: Yes.
Coleman: To take it. Gotcha. Okay. And I did. Okay.
Dr. Figg: So let's talk about the way bright side works so bright side is a recovery program that is structured around weekly support groups we
Dr. Figg: Group people with other patients, people who have had similar issues with opiate addiction independence, who are in various stages of recovery to support each other, kind of like an NA meeting.
Dr. Figg: The group is about an hour long meets at the same time every week it's led by a therapist who has a history and experience with addiction treatment.
Dr. Figg: And it starts with a check in with your doctor to make sure your medications are squared away that you have an appropriate dose of Suboxone or buprenorphine.
Dr. Figg: That you're not in withdrawal, you're not having side effects that you have enough of it. Does that all make sense. That's the general
Dr. Figg: buprenorphine isn't opiate when we put people on buprenorphine. It's kind of like putting people on methadone. It's a substitution, but it's a substitution moving to something that is controlled and safer.
Dr. Figg: buprenorphine. So if we think about heroin heroin gives you pleasure gives you for you. That's the high, it turns off.
Dr. Figg: And turns off your ability to stay awake and breathe. That's the overdose. Right.
Dr. Figg: buprenorphine is safer because it does not tend to have the high doesn't cause euphoria, it
Dr. Figg: We know exactly what's in it. Right. It's a pharmaceutical so it's consistent we we don't have to worry about it being mixed with something
Dr. Figg: And it does not turn off your breathing and does not turn off your ability to stay away the way heroin and methadone and Percocet and other things too. So it's safer because it's effectively very, very, very difficult to overdose on
Dr. Figg: So it has a much better safety profile.
Dr. Figg: It does suppress withdrawal that's important to you. I understand. And that's very important to maintain your recovery and because it helps suppress the withdrawal. It helps suppress cravings when when you take Suboxone and it
Dr. Figg: attaches to the receptor in your brain where works. It holds on tighter than other things so that if you're taking Suboxone and you do use something else like heroin, the heroin will essentially have no effect. So it helps eliminate the reward. Does that make sense.
Coleman: It does. I have a question.
Coleman: Yes, so
Coleman: it suppresses withdrawn.
Coleman: So the question is, and normally
Coleman: There's like
Coleman: Three or four days of just bad withdraws
Coleman: When I'm not using right so if if Suboxone is replaced or used on those three or four days.
Coleman: Whenever I stopped using this Matson that means the howling would be out of my system right
Coleman: Oh, what
Coleman: What go right back to
Dr. Figg: Know, so Suboxone is taken as a daily medication, kind of like if someone kind of high blood pressure. We put them on medication to protect their heart and brain from
Dr. Figg: The ramifications, the consequences of that. And it's not just a one, you feel like it. It's a daily medication Suboxone is used in the same way daily medication to help encourage people to continue in their recovery.
Coleman: But it is addictive.
Dr. Figg: It is an opiate and if you suddenly stopped taking Suboxone you'll go into withdrawal, the same as you work with heroin tends to be a mild or withdrawal, but you would be dependent on it. Yeah.
Coleman: Okay, good.
Dr. Figg: But, similar to the way we use methadone to help people stop using other things. It's a substitution, because it's it's felt to be safer, it reduces people's rates of death. It reduces rate people's rates of relapse reduces people's rates of overdose.
Dr. Figg: And that's what we care about helping people live longer, healthier lives.
Coleman: Yeah.
Coleman: Does that make sense, yes. Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: So what I would suggest we do is to
Dr. Figg: Find a group in the schedule. If you're interested in stopping heroin and switching to Suboxone
Dr. Figg: With the idea to maintain you on Suboxone for a period of time and then it your decision and nature decision to taper you slowly to help you encourage to help encourage your recovery and to
Dr. Figg: Support you then what I think we should do is have the care coordinators set you up into a group that works with your schedule.
Dr. Figg: And I would write you a prescription for sandbox. So you should have received an email that has
Dr. Figg: Some materials on how induction works. What we do is we start with a half of a tablet or fill depending on the form that your
Dr. Figg: insurance cover sometimes their tablets. Sometimes our film, but either way.
Dr. Figg: You know shoe it, you know, swallow it, you know, break it out you don't melt it. You don't do anything else with it. All you do is put it under your tongue, let it dissolve entirely
Dr. Figg: Okay, that takes usually five to 10 minutes and you talked about taking it that way, one time and taking it the wrong way, another time. So that's the way it's taken and then
Dr. Figg: We start with a half of the dose and you would do that tomorrow morning, and preferably probably tomorrow afternoon we want it to be at least 24 hours after your last use of heroin.
Dr. Figg: To make sure that you are in withdrawal because like I said buprenorphine grabs on tighter. So it'll kick something else out and put you into withdrawal. If you take it too early. So we wanted to be a little bit uncomfortable when you take that first so that it makes you feel better.
Dr. Figg: And you would take a half dose, you would wait an hour if you're not feeling better, you would take another half dose. If you're feeling better, you would stop and that would be your consistent dose.
Dr. Figg: And you would slowly go up on the dose hour by hour that tomorrow that first day until you are no longer in withdrawal. Does that make sense.
Coleman: Yes.
Dr. Figg: It was only you know whether you're in withdrawal, you know, your pattern does so. So you have to be able to do it half a dose of the time. Okay.
Yes.
Coleman: All right.
Dr. Figg: And then on a weekly basis we meet you have a therapist has a topic, you have a support group to help support you and you support them and you can share with them.
Dr. Figg: When you're ready, and and the encouraged by other people who are in recovery, you would have weekly meetings with your doctor to make sure that from a medical standpoint, we're supporting as much as we can in recovery and we would kind of adapt the plan number time
Coleman: Okay.
Coleman: Does that sound like an
Dr. Figg: Okay plan.
Coleman: Sounds like a great plan.
Dr. Figg: Awesome. Okay, so the one I'm going to have what we're gonna do is, I'm going to write your prescription. It's going to go to your pharmacy, which, let's make sure we have a file is Walgreens.
Dr. Figg: On Avenue 48, is that correct
Dr. Figg: Yes. Wonderful. Okay, I'm going to send a prescription for you. We're going to get you set up into support group. I'll have, I think you were working with RJ where I go RJ
Yes.
Dr. Figg: I'll have them reach out to you to set you up into a group and we'll kind of go from there and make sure everything's taken care of. And it looks like they already sent orders for you to do some labs.
Dr. Figg: Okay.
Dr. Figg: Okay. All right.
Dr. Figg: That's about it. Do you have any questions before we go.
Coleman: So what's my next step.
Dr. Figg: So your next thing is the the care coordinators are going to give you a call back to get you set up into a group that works with your schedule and I and then in in an hour, hour and a half or so you're going to go to the pharmacy.
Dr. Figg: To pick up your Suboxone and then you'll take your first dose tomorrow. Okay.
Coleman: Okay. OK, I will be able to get today.
Dr. Figg: Yes, that's correct.
Coleman: Guys, great, even without will have to pay for today.
Dr. Figg: Probably it'll be at the pharmacy. I don't know that it costs like that, that'll depend on
Coleman: So, okay, that's wonderful.
Dr. Figg: Alright, Coleman. It was nice to talk to you today. I'm glad we got to communicate here, despite the video problems and and I look forward to hopefully talking with you again in the future. Okay.
Coleman: Hey, thank you.
Dr. Figg: All right, appreciate my pleasure. Take care. Have a great day. Bye bye.